# MODULE 2 EXCERCISE 4

When I've thought extensively about Digital History and what it means to me, as I did within the first Module, I found myself wondering what happens when it disappears. So, I felt as if this excercise was the most prevalent to me. When you view things on the internet, they're like footprints, they don't even need to be facts or arguments you can legitimately stand on, you could be stating an opinion and it either lasts forever, or you hit the delete button. If I could get a dollar every time I see a pass-aggressive Facebook post that disappears within the hour - I probably wouldn't have any student debt.

Donna Yate's process reminds me a lot of what I do with my music, or pictures that I've taken over the years. I have it saved on my current desktop, my laptop, my phone, an external USB device, and two different external hard drives. Periodically (not nearly as anally as Donna), I sync them with the newest data I have. I remember one year I purchased a new phone, (let's keep in mind I was a space case at this moment in time) it was an Android, so mildly different processes than Apple. I had gone to various concerts and events last year, I thought I had everything saved and backed-up to my computer, so I rebooted and wiped everything because the new phone was giving me battery life issues. Low and behold I put everything back on the phone and I'm missing a solid six months of memories. I'm not even sure why I hadn't synced anything in so long, things must have just been too busy.

Ultimately, this whole piece reminds me of how small we all are individually, and how our footprints on the internet, even if ephemeral, can define us, or destroy us. I remember one girl being particularly upset about her ex-boyfriend, so, in class fashion, she took to Facebook to talk about his transgressions. Within 24 hours the post was gone and a large number of our mutual friends were horrified and disgusted by her behaviour - permanently leaving a black mark on her reputation. As much as I sometimes enjoy the hysterics I find on Facebook, I don't enjoy slander, or statements made with baseless facts - and one of the unfortunately things is, is that Facebook isn't the only place that happens.

We always see things online that we look at and go: "That couldn't possibly be true, or valid!" And then something comes out a week later providing scientific evidence about it, and then a couple of months go by and it's refuted - which to be fair, is what science is all about, but some people only see the one side. For example, anti-vaccinators - when it's not their own child in danger, they uphold their view that it could cause autism, etc etc., but the moment something does occur and their own child is at risk, suddenly it's a hell Mary and they were so wrong and terrible to ever put that thought out there in the first place.

My research interests typically cater to the Psychology area, I enjoy reading about abnormal psychology, specifically areas of mental health. In recent years there's been a strong shift in how we regard mental health. There is still a lot of stigma, but these days it's a different stigma. We still see many people denying the difficulties that come with having a mental illness, and we still see families that try to keep things hush-hush, but these days we seem to see a romanticized view of mental illness, and what it means to have a mental illness. I use Tumblr as an example because it's the first thing that comes to mind, and I understand it's mostly teenagers that find solace in the website, but it's easy to search the depression tag and find short winds and woes of how terrible one's life is. We are all privy to the hormones and the difficulties teenagers have with adjusting to the adult world, but it's sometimes hard to distinguish whether it's purely for the attention (notes are pretty important to a lot of people) or if it's really medical and should be treated.

I am strained to put weight on the way people claim that because they have a couple of days of feeling sad, that it qualifies for them to be depressed, but they glorify it in such a way (or use WedMD for symptoms) that it stirs the pot. Sometimes the posts disappear after awhile, I know I had a number of blogs that have since been deleted but they were still out there on the ephemeral online world for all to see. There might be a lot of research pieces out their that will be refuted in later years, so even though I might source something now, it could turn out to be totally irrelevant in a couple of years, *which is frightening.*

What makes this whole thing frightening is we take a lot of what we read as being an authoritative voice in the back of our minds, we really see it as true and honest, and never incorrect. So, it's no wonder that there are so many generations of families that still view mental illness as this faux-pas talked about thing, because educational articles used to teach and condemn the behaviours of the mentally ill. You were never supposed to approach those that were sick, and you were meant to look away, and they were meant to be institutionalized. Really, such a terrible outlook, but that's what the generation believed.

So, what about now? Should we be taking everything with a grain of salt? Should we say: "Yes, I believe this *for now*, but I just want to make it clear my opinion might change based on scientific evidence." Sure, that might be given in general, but do you think it might help those who immediately believe in something that could later reveal it wasn't true at all? And the other reality is that the article itself could just disappear, if it's never published in a book, and it's never saved or printed out, you might source it, and later when someone looks it up they could be on you because it no longer exists, putting your whole reputation on the line. It makes me think twice of how I only save pictures/music. I will have to begin saving articles that I quote and source going forward. I will likely never be as extreme as Donna, but I already have fairly good habits. I believe if I stay in the world of academia, I would be more stringent on my habits and much more prudent on how often I save things.
