I decided I took great enjoyment out of this exercise because I used to see a lot of these used in presentations during class. I never really understand the depth of how nice it was to use them until now, and I thought it was really just people using them by inserting whatever words they wanted, but I like this concept much better. It did make me realize a lot of flaws in my own writing (like how I can’t seem to properly write exercise 99% of the time when there is no spell check – which ResophNotes does not seem to have).

This image I created above I used all the modules I had written notes on to see what came out. I didn’t realize how often I used “it’s” but apparently it was enough over something like a million exercises now and apparently that is my favourite word. Perhaps I should starting using “it is” from now on. Much more formal.

It was interesting to note what connecting words I tended to use things with, apparently a lot of them time when I use “history” it connects with “hard” or “knowledge”. I know that my primary goal out of this course is to gain knowledge and perhaps I do find that a little difficult. Either way, it was entertaining to see what I found important in the large span of things.

I used a lot of content from previous exercises to see what I could get out of these images, this was compiling all the reviews from the previous corpus. Evidently reviewers enjoying using the word film or movie. I was surprised to see that characters was more commonly used than woman or man / she / he, based on one of the previous views I talked about when I was looking over the reviews in another program. It doesn’t surprise me that someone other than myself uses “it’s” (and I found it mildly humorous it put “it’s big” together like that).

My biggest takeaway from this was just how often the word like was used. In professional writing (and all throughout my university career) it’s been made clear to me that like is not a powerful word to use in the context of anything, it tends to steer away from viewing the writing as tasteful or classy, and rather seems juvenile. I suppose I was surprised that reviewers don’t take notice of this more often, or perhaps it’s because their audience doesn’t notice it at all.

I took a number of articles from a previous exercise to create this image, the general theme seemed to be around the British Prime Minister and recent tax scandals in light of offshore accounts. Whenever I think of journalism, I think of who their main target is. I try to think: “What are they trying to convey to their reader?” or: “What are we trying to change in their minds?” The media is a powerful thing. You don’t get very far in the interesting without issuing something that will blow the reader away, and make them truly re-evaluate what they might know about something.

So, when I see the word “trust” as one of the most commonly used words or “tax”, I think about what exactly they are trying to convey to their audience, and it reminds me of how we like to jump on politicians the moment they do something wrong, and the media does a great job of that before they even have all the facts. What’s most important to them is making sure the backlash is massive, so ensuring they are ingraining something in the back of the reader’s mind is supremely important. For example, no matter how often someone will think of the British Prime Minister, if they’ve read the multitude of articles I moved into text format, they will likely have little to no trust in what concerns him, or they might think of tax and offshore accounts. It’s an interesting play on our emotions as readers, and what we keep in our subconscious.

