# MODULE 4 EXCERCISE 5

Working through AntConc and various Corpus .txt documents, it's interesting to see the lack of variety we use in our day to day. It's very hard to find different words to replace pronouns, but it's humourous to read a text and not really notice how often we use pronouns, but then we plug it into AntConc and find this lack of ingenuity. I was able to work through most of AntConc with ease, interesting to me were the reviews and seeing how women were portrayed so vividly with kinder terms, versus men who were typically viewed in darker terms. Without diving into a conversation that seems to leer in a feministic direction - when I watch movies I notice this kind of pattern, where women characters take on a life where they must follow a light path, they don't get into a trouble - and if they do they must be saved by the man who has a trouble past.

It's similar to romantic comedies, or even super hero personas (at least before the Marvel blast). Yes, DC had it's fair share of strong female characters, but for a long time it was taboo to have them in movies. Everyone wanted to see the strong character that was Batman, Superman, etc., and their equally strong villanous counterparts who were also strong and male (yes, Poison Ivy and Harley aren't your normal female persona's, but they've both always been very sexualized in a very light manner). Marvel really tested the boundaries of where they could take the female role - especially with X-Men and characters like Storm or in recent adaptations the plethora of interest with Jennifer Lawrence's character - Mystique. This excercise made me think more scrutingly about why female characters are more light and bubbly versus male characters who are brooding and have some dark back story that "made them that way". I know that probably wasn't entirely the intention of the excercise itself, I did have a fun time noticing just how often we use the word "their/they're/there" and "the" or "it".

It just interests me that I can take a multitude of subjects (psychology/criminology/law), I can snag a whole slew of articles / research papers / or entire chapters, and see exactly what the main focus was for particular areas. At one point in this exercise I ended up scanning an entire chapter on schizophrenia from my Abnormal Psychology class, I put into text format, and low and behold the word "schizophrenia" had the most usage, but it was interesting to see that the next one most used was therapies, and so I decided to look back at a textbook my mom bought from a garage sale a number of years ago. I took a chapter on schizophrenia, uploaded it and followed that same pattern, and sure schizophrenia was the most used word, but the second was treatments. I always think of treatment and therapy as two very different things. Treatment = drugs, therapy = a humanistic approach to how we can view the environment as more important to the treatment for areas of mental health. I started to pull other textbooks to see what more I could find and then realized just how much time I had devoted to one section of a 10 excercise module...
